# Theme Developement Overview

While you can change various functions and features of the site in-site via Wordpress, the look, feel, and many important factors are only able to be modified by changing the theme's code. Theme changes can drastically change how the site looks and if all aspects
are displayed correctly, so be mindful of your process when applying changes (check out the [deployment.md](/deployment.md) for our local setups and how such changes should be made). Information regarding the theme, how it was created, and the major points to look
for when modifying it can be found below.

## Theme Origin

Our theme was created using [underscores](https://underscores.me/) with the additional "sassify" option. This provided a starting codebase and organising in which to proceed with development a custom theme. From there, the starter theme was modified to its current form.

## Theme Folder Overview

When looking at the site directory and repository, the theme "tsvjazz" sits within the 'wp-content/themes' area. Inside the 'tsvjazz' folder are a number of sub-folders and files important for editing and maintaining the theme. A basic overview of the folder structure,
important sub-folders and files, and their purpose to the overall theme are listed below:

- **tsv-jazz** (main folder)
  - **sass** (sub-folder): the sass folder contains a number of important elements and was automatically added to the folder structure when the starter theme was "sassified" in underscores. The sass folder contains the majority of custom code that gets output to the .css file.
      - **custom** (sub-folder): the sass custom folder was created by our developers to hold custom versions of sass starter files with our own changes added. This was done to preserve original files in case of updates or the need to recover default layouts.
          - **grunt** (sub-folder):
              - _custom_styles.css.map: This is a file created by Grunt.js
              - custom_styles.css: This file is created from the custom_styles.css file and contains most of the custom css not provided by the default installation of                 the underscores theme. This file should not be edited because it is an automatically generated file by Grunt.js to convert the custom_styles.scss to                   css.
              - styles_archive.css: This file is combined with the custom_styles.css to create the style.css file using Grunt.js. It contains everything that is above                                     the Custom Styles comment header in the style.css file so if you need to make a change to that code you do that here.
          - **custom_styles.scss**: This is where you will do any editing you need for css, this will automatically been converted from scss to css and will be applied                                     to style.css. This contains most of the custom code for the site that isnt in the blank install of underscores.
          - **custom_vars_mixins.scss**: This file contains all of the variables and mixins that is used in custom_styles.scss. If you need to change a variable/mixins                                          such as font size or colours you can do that here.
          - **output.css**: This file isn't needed anymore and can be deleted. Was originally used to testing Grunt.js.
      
  - **Gruntfile.js**: This file contains the Grunt config that is used when you run grunt watch. This is where you can make any changes to Grunt functionality that you                       wish. Currently this has two tasks and watches for any scss file to be saved. It then generates the style.css file by converting                                       custom_styles.scss to custom_styles.css and concatinating this with styles_archive.css.
  - 
  - **LICENSE**: The license file was created by underscores and contains a standard GNU General Public License, version 2 license. This file is necessary to have contained within the theme directory and provides information on use of the theme. This is not intended to be modified.
  - **style.css**: This file is automatically generated using Grunt.
 

## Theme Features

When designing a theme you are able to make a number of choices regarding the features your website will have. Because of our project guidelines and information regarding the client (design and cms experience), we chose to keep to a minimalistic approach, including only a few key features.

### One-column layout

We decided on a minimalist approach for our website to make it easier to maintain our theme and make it easier for future developers to continue coding our theme. It also made site integration easier when adding in plugins and editing content.


### Sidebar

The sidebar was created by copying the contents from contents_sidebar.scss into custom_styles.scss. We felt that this would make it easy for the users to access our plugins that we used for our site and give them more opportunities to see whats available on the site. If you need to edit the Sidebar the best way to do this is to edit the code in custom_styles.scss and not in the contents_sidebar.scss.

### Grunt.js

We chose Grunt.js to be our file watcher and to convert our sass code into css. It is included in the theme so that developers have access to the Grunt.js file that is already setup to watch any changes to sass files and update style.css. This makes it easier for future developers to code the theme as they do not have to worry about creating an extra script for managing sass conversion. All neccessary grunt files are already included in the theme. This can also be easily extended by numerous Grunt modules if the developer wants more options to manage their code.

## Design Decisions

The below list is a number of important factors of the current theme and our justification for designing them in that way. Also included is the location/file at which point these decisions could be later modified.

### Structure

#### Padding
Padding values are based on the 'phi' value which is further explained [here](https://www.bluearcher.com/blog-item-key-to-golden-ratio).

Default padding values are set in the 'structure' section of custom_vars_mixins.scss and can be modified by either multiplying or dividing by the $phi variable.

To modify padding for specific elements in custom_styles.scss, multiply the $phi value by the unit value. For example:<br> `'padding-left: $phi * 1rem'`

We are specifically using 'rem' (root em) values as they are based on the root element and are generally easier to work with and troubleshoot especially as the styling expands.




### Typography

#### 

#### Font
We are using the [Raleway](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Raleway) font for our primary font from Google Fonts which is published under the Open Font License meaning it is free for commercial use. The font provides an elegant look that is easy to read.

The fonts are set using the following variables set within custom_vars_mixins.scss:
- $font__main
- $font__code
- $font__pre

### Colours

The client requested we maintain the 'yellow' colour theme, so we have maintained that with a gold and grey that meshes well with the existing logo.

These colours are set using the following variables set within custom_vars_mixins.scss:
- $color__text-main
- $color__link
- $color__link-visited
- $color__link-hover
- $color__background-body
- $color__border-main_panel
- $color__background-main_panel


Colours were generated using [Coolors](https://coolors.co).